如果你觉得微软推出的 Surface Pro 4 不够像是一台笔记本，那么不妨考虑下 Brudge 为其推出的配件。Brudge 是一家为苹果 iPad 等产品生产可拆卸式键盘的厂家。 在 CES 2017 上，该公司又为 Surface Pro 3、以及 Surface Pro 4 平板电脑推出了“Brydge 12.3”键盘配件。 与微软官方的 Type Cover 键盘保护套不同，Brydge 12.3 旨在将你的 Surface Pro 变身为一台“真正的”笔记本电脑。Brydge 12.3 采用了金属机身，可与 Surface 平板电脑完美搭配。简而言之，有了 Brydge 12.3，你可以完全免去使用 Surface Pro 自带的支架的烦恼，因为 Brydge 12.3 的铰链能够为屏幕部分提供完整的支撑、并且支持 180° 放平。Brydge 12.3 厚 0.3 英寸、仅重 1.3 磅（590g），通过蓝牙 3.0 标准与平板电脑连接。此外它还支持背光、触控板、以及续航达 3 个月的可充电电池。Type Cover 与 Brydge 12.3 的使用状态对比。Brydge 12.3 将于 1 月 5 日在其官网开放预定，优惠价为 129.99 美元（约合 900 元 RMB），预计发货时间为 2017 年春季。零售价格会恢复至 149.99 美元（约合 1039 元 RMB），与 微软 官方的 Surface Pro 4“Type Cover”相当。此外，该公司还计划在未来推出一款可扩展 128GB SSD 存储的版本。 一一   END   一一
@Surface_Pro
帮助转发！希望能尽快找回Surface！
同期待Surface Phone，可惜WP10超级不争气，还不如WP8用得舒服[摊手]
【东方手绘... 【东方手绘PV】无生命Surface【石鹸屋】小妖精真可爱呀(*´∇｀*) “借着无重力撒娇的Jester~”
细数这一年来的发展历程，我们感慨良多。一路走来，感谢有您，感恩参与，小编带您一起回首过往一年的点点滴滴……  2016年1月1日 宁波微软店开业   2016年2月28日 首场“粉丝会”开课    2016年5月1日 劳动节活动      2016年11月11日  专为单身汪福利活动      2017年1月1日   生日会     从Surface3到pro4、book，经历了一年的风雨，最终迎来了我们宁波恒创微软的一周岁生日！    您可以点击文章最后的“写留言”功能，发送祝福给我们，亦可提出宝贵意见建议……感谢一路有您，未来我们将继续携手前行！欢迎大家留言！
今年高通835处理器的升级很大，windows 手机的升级很大，所以攒钱买surface phone。[doge]明年攒钱组装台式机。[微笑]就是不攒钱娶媳妇，娶媳妇要攒太多钱了。[笑cry]
先有苹果与三星的美国GUI之战，后有360和江民的国内GUI之争，GUI的保护在全球得到了蓬勃的发展，而GUI申请都需要依附相应的产品载体，也就是Article(Ina design patent application, the subject matter which is claimed is the designembodied in or applied to an article of manufacture (or portion thereof) and notthe article itself)。    关于Article，有各种各样的存在形式，可以是一个手机，可以是一个电视也可以是形状奇怪的监视器当然，在支持部分保护的国家，也可以采用虚线外框来表示Article。    不过，如果申请人在递交发明的时候，如果没有描述Article，直接描写成这样结果会是如何？    结果便是该GUI申请被USPTO驳回了，但是驳回理由不是申请中没有描述Article，而是该申请属于图标（icon），而图标不属于design的范畴（The basis for the rejection was thatan icon was not an ornamental design for an article of manufacture as requiredby§171 because it was mere surface ornamentation rather than a design appliedto an article of manufacture）。    无奈申请人向当时的Board of PatentAppeals and Interferences (BPAI)提出了上述，增加了icon的应用场景（computer display），将申请文件修改为这样：    不过这个案子还是被BPAI维持了，不过理由发生了变化，维持的理由变成了申请人增加的计算机环境描述信息（虚线部分）算是newmatter。    由此可见，在申请中进行Article的布局还是很重要的。这个案子意外的收获便是，icon可以作为GUI 的保护客体了。
为了引导和鼓励广大青年教师积极投入到“传承教化嘉定，熔铸品质教育”的实践中，加深理解“为了每一个学生的终身发展”理念，促进青年教师的成长，提高教育教学质量，嘉定区教育局、嘉定区教师进修学院举行以“关注学科核心价值，提升课堂品质”为主题的嘉定区第九届“教学新秀”青年教师教学评选活动。小学自然学科经过校级评审、区级初评，共有13位青年教师参加区级复赛。在为期一周的复赛评比中，小学自然学科涌现出了一批青年才俊。特别是大家注重创新教法，关注学科核心价值，体现基于课标的评价，我们看到了嘉定区小学自然学科未来发展的希望。这里有你认识的老师吗？在课堂上有许多创新点不断迸发，着实让评委老师眼前一亮。参赛的新秀教师不拘泥于传统的课堂教学方法，精心制作教具，有效调控课堂，充分施展了各自的智慧和才能，呈现出了一堂堂精彩的自然课。曹王小学高嵩老师以及金鹤小学戴冬琴老师都是执教《光的反射》一课。他们为了让激光的光路更加清楚，分别使用了水雾和生粉，起到了异曲同工之妙；上外嘉外的武丹丹老师执教《导体和绝缘体》创新使用surface平板电脑，在学生猜测导体和绝缘体活动中体现了优势，并能把各小组猜测的结果进行同时分享，让技术改进教学手段；马陆小学李淑丹老师执教的《水的旅行》一课，创新了大量教具，让教学重难点迎刃而解。孩子们在课上积极活动，思维火花迸发而出第九届“教学新秀”教学评选活动的开展，为推进我区教育综合改革的步伐不断助力，同时也让新教师们迅速成长，相信在不久的将来这些新教师一定会支起嘉定教育的一片天。嘉定区第九届“教学新秀”青年教师教学评选活动获奖名单（小学自然）一等奖金鹤小学            戴冬琴曹王小学            高    嵩嘉一附小            周    娴二等奖马陆小学            李淑丹望新小学            张    鹤上外嘉外            武丹丹朱桥学校            傅俊倩三等奖普通小学            王轶文实验小学            陈夏青外冈小学            唐    婷古猗小学            丁    鼎江桥小学            李淑凤德富路小学        钱晓斌                         【编辑：陈豪    摄影：陈健】
Amazon's new game engine, Lumberyard, is free and great for anyone with a budding interest in game and asset creation. This set of basic steps is the first in a series of Lumberyard walkthroughs. We're going to start by creating a very basic scene in Lumberyard. The tutorial will explore the simple workflow basics you'll need to master in order to start creating inside this platform. In coming tutorials we'll make it more complex by creating a small level, complete with assets we'll rig and texture, before moving into atmospherics and cinematics to really show what can be done in Lumberyard from scratch. We'll also lightly cover AI, storytelling, sound, compiling and debugging. To get started, download and run the installer files, and use the Lumberyard Setup Assistant to set up your development environment. Relative to what you would like to do, it will tell you which additional SDKs and plug-ins you'll need to set up for your project(s). You may also want to grab the Woodland Asset pack and the legacy GameLevel SDK. Before you install Lumberyard, it may save you some post-install troubleshooting to grab and install the free community edition of Microsoft Visual Studio 2013, as some of the software required will call on Visual Studio redistributables. If you do this, remember to reboot after install. If you're going for a full setup, save yourself some error messages and install the free version of Visual Studio 2013 firstFor a plain vanilla, 'getting to know Lumberyard' runthrough, you don't need to do anything except check 'Run Your Game Project' and 'Run the Lumberyard Editor and Tools'.  If you plan on using Substance Designer, you will need to check 'Compile game code' as well, so you'll get the Allegorithmic listing in the SDK section. This will install the Substance plug-in for use in the Lumberyard Editor. Once you're done, click the new 'Configure Project' icon on your desktop or in the Setup Assistant's summary screen. We'll start creating custom projects next issue, but for this walkthrough you can either use the SamplesProject, which should be set as your default, or the GameSDK, which you will have to set as your default by clicking Set to Default in the upper right corner.The difference between these two is the level of assets and demos available; the SamplesProject has fewer assets and is aimed at beginners, but the GameSDK has a lot of stuff you can look at and rip apart in order to learn. This walkthrough can be run from either project, though.  Also, note that a Lumberyard project works pretty much like a container: any level you create, any asset you bring in, or any Gems you activate in the Project Configurator's upper right via 'Enable Packages' with your chosen project active, will be added to that particular project's setup and assets alone, and won't be accessible by other projects. This is also where you activate Substance for your project, so if you've installed it, check Substance, click Save and Back to Project. The Asset Processor may start to churn and may take a few minutes, depending on your system. It's a preloader and updater of all the assets (textures, objects, materials, settings and so forth) in your chosen project, as opposed to loading assets on a per-item basis and then waiting for your project to churn it into your existing set of assets. When the Asset Processor is finished, you can start the editor, or it will start by itself, depending on your settings. Once your level is generated, you'll see the Lumberyard Editor isn't much different to other 3D applications or game engines when it comes to navigation. In addition to the file menu, you have two default ribbons on startup. The EditMode toolbar contains common commands like Undo/Redo, Select, Scale, Rotate, Move and Load. Hover over them to show their shortkeys. There's also the Editor toolbar, which brings up any editor from the Asset Browser to the Terrain Editor. Right-click to add additional toolbars, like Object or Debug. Note that the editors are dockable, so if for example you have the Terrain Layer Editor open, you can drag other editors, like the Material or Terrain Editor on top of it, and it will dock – with the Editor's tab at the bottom of the editor you're using. The quads in the RollupBar on the right are quick menus and parameter editors, starting with the two tabs we'll be using the most in this walkthrough: Objects and Terrain. When it comes to navigation, you use W, A, S, D to move forward, right, backward and left. The left mouse button to select, the middle mouse button to scroll/zoom, and the right mouse button to bank. Use [Ctrl]+[G] to see your work from a game perspective, and press Escape to get back into the editor. The bottom bar contains functionality, ranging from locking an item to flythrough speed and audio-muting, in addition to the console. It can really help you to see your work from a character's perspective, so you may want to open the Database View from the View menu or Editor toolbar if you chose the SamplesProject. Click the Prefabs Library tab>Open>Character_controllers.xml and drag the Spherical Controller into your scene. It will load a fully rigged robot you can move around with – including jumping (Spacebar). The GamesSDK will load a character already present when you press [Ctrl]+[G]. Let's dig deeper into the process, in order to set up and create your first Lumberyard environment.01. Generating your level The first thing you need to do after creating or opening your project is to create a new level on startupOnce the editor has launched, it starts with a pop-up asking you to name your level. Do so. Next, define your terrain's size and texture size; set Terrain Size to a small 1024x1024 and one meter. Then, set the texture at the default 4096x4096 with Colour Multiplier set to default eight. The multiplier's job is to boost the brightness of the layer's colour, and also to dampen distorted colours, or colours with artefacts with increased settings. You can change this setting later if you don't like it. Click OK and Lumberyard generates a plane as your level's starter terrain.02. Creating a terrain Start by using the Terrain Editor to customise your terrain. If your terrain all of a sudden appears really high, flatten it, or use Reduce Range (Heavy) a few times under ModifyIf you've worked with any other terrain generating software, getting the hang of the Terrain Editor is a snap. It just has fewer brushes, but the same three choices: Auto-Generate, Handpaint or Import Heightmap. One good way to generate a low, uneven starter terrain is to use the very big brush in combination with Noise Settings. It's worth noting that no matter which brush you pick, the Outside Radius of your brush helps define its slope and softness, so for a soft edge, always set your Outside Radius higher than your Inside Radius, in addition to lowering the Hardness. Also Enable Noise with Scale 3, and Frequency 50, for some variation. Handpainting with this setting may be hard to see in the editor, but your brushstrokes will be very visible on your terrain. Also explore Smoothing and Range Reduction in the Modify menu for fine-tuning.03. Texture prep and set up One of the fastest ways to generate Highpassed Diffuse maps is to just put a Highpass Node before the Diffuse Output Node in Substance DesignerOnce you're happy with your terrain, it's time to generate some basic materials – preferably in *.TIF format. Lumberyard uses a Spec/Gloss workflow. This means you'll need a Diffuse, Normal, Specular and Height map to start with. As we're working with the Terrain Layer Shader, you'll need to take some extra prepping steps in order for these to work correctly. First, ensure your map is a square x2 (512x512, 1024x1024, 2048, and so forth). Second, highpass your diffuse map. As Lumberyard is a CryEngine fork, some of the CryEngine workflows remain, including working with terrain materials. Using the Highpass filter in Photoshop (Filters>Other>Highpass) or the Highpass in Substance Designer's Filters>Adjustments will remove the low-frequency colour variations from your map. This will also mute its appearance significantly. A good Highpass value in Photoshop can be between 10 and 15, but getting it right depends on your image; tweaking and rechecking in-engine. Regardless of whether you're using Photoshop or Substance Designer, your image needs to be saved as a CryTif. Lumberyard will have installed the plug-in for Photoshop. Use the RC converter found in Lumberyard's \bin64\rc folder.When you're done with your image in Photoshop, go to Save As, and select CryTif from the dropdown. This will bring up the CryEngine converter. In the CryEngine Preset list, select Terrain_Albedo_Highpass. Check 'List All Presets' to the left of the dropdown if it doesn't show right away. Then, select your resolution in the resolution screen, and click OK.Secondly, Lumberyard needs a material's Gloss Map to be in the Alpha channel of a Normal. A Gloss Map controls the spread of the specular map's intensity, not specularity itself, and the usual rules apply: white for bright, black for matte, and everything in between as nuance.   If you use Substance this is pretty easy, as all you do – provided you've generated or converted a substance to Spec/Gloss – is to plug an RGB-A Merge Node from Filters>Channels into the Normal's final output node, where the Diffuse is RGB and the Gloss Map is A. Save your Normal as output with a DDNA suffix, so Lumberyard will understand that it's a Normal with a Gloss Map in the Alpha, such as 'glossynormal_ddna.ti.'In Photoshop, once you've got both your Normal and Gloss Map, go to Channels. If there's no Alpha channel, quickly generate one and paste your Gloss Map into it. Now save this file as a TIF/CryTif with the _DDNA suffix so Lumberyard recognises it.04. Creating a MaterialRemember to set your shader to Terrain Layer and use the Layer Painter to check and play with your textureOnce you're done prepping, generating a Material is a lot less of a process, especially as Lumberyard currently has no nodes. In the Material Editor, go to the Materials folder, right-click and select Add New Material. Then name your material, such as Grass_Mine. Once the Material is generated, it'll show a red square in the Editor saying Replace Me – and we'll do just that. Under Material Settings, set the shader to TerrainLayer and Surface Type to Grass. Don't do anything in the Opacity Settings, and under Lighting settings, set your Specular to not-so-reflective at about RGB 70. Skip the Advanced tab, and under Texture Maps, load the textures from your texture folder into their relative slots. If you're using a high-res texture, you can reduce the moiré pattern it generates at its default setting of one by clicking next to Diffuse in Texture Maps, and again next to Tiling in the subsequent parameters. Try setting it to somewhere between 0.25 and 0.5 to begin with, and then tweak. Depending on the strength of your normal and the look you want for the terrain, you may also want to turn on Parallax Occlusion Mapping under Shader Generation Parameters. A few extra sliders will activate under Shader Parameters. Tweak POM Displacement to your liking, as well as Self Shadow Strength. Save when you're done. 05. Applying texturesAfter you've generated your terrain, go to the Terrain Layer Editor. Click the Material URL to open the Material Editor so you can work with them bothLumberyard lets you apply terrain textures in layers you generate in the Terrain Layer Editor. Once it's generated you can handpaint or floodfill it to your liking. Do this by opening the Terrain Layer Editor from the Editors ribbon, or View>Open Pane>Terrain Layer Editor. Click Add A New Layer in the Layers task bar on the left. Call it Grass. Go back into the Material Editor, make sure your grass is active by clicking on it, and click back to the Terrain Layer Editor. Click Assign Material. You'll see the material URL above the layer's name change to the assigned material – clicking it brings up the Material Editor. To check if the material has been applied so you can work with it, click the Terrain tab in the RollupBar (second from left) and click Layer Painter. If you see your layer listed, you can start texturing the terrain. If you don't see it, recheck. The Layer Painter updates almost immediately when a new layer is generated, so it's easy to see if your terrain layer is set up or not. The Layer Painter brushes are straightforward, but note that if you've set a colour, you'll need to click Save Layer in order to keep it. Use the Reset button to reset; it will reset your material's brightness to its default value.  You can choose whether to handpaint or floodfill your terrain layer. The general workflow is to floodfill the texture you have the most of, and then handpaint details like rock and soil on top of it. In any case, select your relevant layer and handpaint a little to begin with, to see whether your material looks okay. When you're done, finalise your terrain texture by using Generate Terrain Texture in the Terrain Menu – this is also where you can tweak the Terrain Colour Multiplier settings. 06. Adding static itemsLoad your static object from the Brushes menu. Press 2 to move, 3 to rotate, 4 to scaleOnce you're done texturing your terrain, it's time to add some props. Regardless of which project you decided to work with, go to the Objects quad in the RollupBar, and select Brush. A Brush in Lumberyard is for static items, and they can be anything from a rock to an apartment building. It also means that unless it has been given a set of instructions in the asset file, it won't do anything, bar maybe have its leaves blow in the wind; you can't interact with the object, and its existence in the level is solely to be part of the environment. Once you've selected Brush, the Browser loads showing a folder named Objects. Click Natural. If you're working with the SamplesProject, you'll see a lot of cartoon-type trees in the browser. If you selected the GamesSDK, you'll see some more subfolders containing more realistic assets. Navigate to the Trees folder, and pick a tree that you like the look of. To add it to your scene, simply select and drag it. You can use the icons on the EditMode toolbar or the shortkeys: 2 for select and move, 3 for select and rotate, 4 for select and scale, to manipulate them, and of course, 1 to select them, so you can tweak their materials, or press delete to get rid of them. 07. Importing GemsTo add a Gem it first needs to be unzipped into your dev folder before the configurator can pick it upIf you downloaded the Woodland Asset pack from Amazon's Lumberyard site, this is where we're going to use its assets to create a few simple mass-instances of rocks and vegetation. To install this Gem, which it is, exit Lumberyard and extract the zip into your \dev\Gems folder. We'll cover how to create custom Gems in a future issue, but for now, a Gem is a package containing assets and their code, and you compile them as a package – or Gem – to ensure you can use the content in several projects or share it with others. Once you've unpacked it into your Gems folder, start the Project Configurator, make sure your project is selected and check Enable Package in the upper right. Check Woodland Asset Collection, click Save, and with your project selected, click Launch Editor and watch the asset processor do its thing. Once it's done, restart and reload your level or create a new one.08. Add vegetationAlways remember to regularly check how your scene looks renderedThis is where we're going to set up mass instances of vegetation or props. Go to the RollupBar and the Terrain quad, and click Vegetation. In order to define which assets you're going to use to cover your terrain, click Add Category. Name the first one Grass. Right-click Grass, select Add Object, and navigate to the Woodland Assets in Objects>Natural>Ground>Grass and select a few from any one of the folders. When you've got your collection ready, select all your objects, experiment with tweaking your settings – from +-(Sizevar) for a little variety in size, to LOD and/or Sprite Distance. To get that pretty 'wind in the grass' effect, you need to tweak bending. In addition, especially on multilayered terrains, you may see sharp divides where textures meet or overlap, so make sure the assets can paint on the layer by setting your layer as paintable by enabling 'Paint on Terrain Layers' in the settings listing below. Follow the same procedure for additional categories. You can get rid of your instances either by right-clicking them and selecting Remove Instance, or brushing over while holding the [Ctrl] key down. You may also want to keep an eye on your memory here – as Lumberyard is still in beta, overloading memory is still a common crash-inducer, so perhaps hold off on auto-distributing objects if you're low on memory. 09. Environment lightingUse the trinity of the Sun Trajectory Tool, Time of Day and the Environment button in the RollupBar to tweak your light and fog settingsThe last thing we're going to take a quick look at is Lumberyard's lighting. CryEngine's Lighting tool has been tweaked and renamed Sun Trajectory Tool, and can be found under View>Open Pane. This is where you define your scene's sun settings and how fast daylight moves to night and back in your scene. In addition, you use the settings in the RollupBar's Terrain tab>Environment to modify Fog, Skybox, and Total Illumination. However, a lot of lighting power can be found elsewhere, under Terrain>Time of Day, with its HDR curve on the left and somewhat daunting list of parameter settings on the right. To tweak the lighting from one sun in a scene, you use the Sky parameters, which consists mainly of multipliers. Be light-handed here, as a little boost will go a long way. Adjust your sun's colour and intensity in the SkyLight tab, and, still keeping it subtle, explore the Skybox and Total Illumination settings in the Environment tab.10. Summing upUse Autobackup so you're covered if anything goes wrongNow you've got a grasp of the scene creation basics,explore and experiment with anything from textures to AI. Don't be afraid  to ask questions either, and should your explorations bring Lumberyard crashing down around your ears, there's always the Autobackup in File>Global Preferences>Editor Settings>File>Autobackup. Enable, choose your intervals, and you should be good to go!想实时查阅 CRY 引擎相关技术，请关注：
趋于完美之后 CES上这些电脑仍然值得关注  一年一度的 CES 大展已经在地球的另一边盛大开幕，赶在展会之前，各路厂商纷纷拿出了自己本年度最重要的硬件产品。整机方面，我们去年给了“设计是永恒话题”的评价。一年过去，顶级笔记本、台式机的设计已经逐渐趋同，窄边框、可翻转都已经不是新鲜元素。各路旗舰产品的使用体验都日趋完美，我们或许该感到庆幸，也或许该感到绝望。当产品趋于完美之后，厂商们在该怎样展现自己的不同？   ThinkPad X1 系列  近年来，CES 是 ThinkPad X1 系列更新的唯一节点。在本次 CES 正式开展前，联想就迫不及待地将 X 系列三款当家产品一口气发布了。本次的新品节奏与以往 ThinkPad X 系列小改小升级的方法相同，但比每次都有意义。  ThinkPad X1 Carbon   无论你是不是承认，X1 Carbon 依然是目前市场上最值得买的商务本之一。本次的小升级着重对外观设计进行了改动，更窄的屏幕边框和银色机身的引入多少稀释了一些 X1 Carbon 固有的商务印象。  个人认为本次升级在硬件上的重点并不是7代酷睿处理器（毕竟这个谁家都会有），ThinkPad 引入了 LTE 模块和红外摄像头，也就是说2017款 X1C 可以很方便地在户外上网，并且支持 Windows Hello 面部识别解锁，这是它相比 XPS 13 等窄边框笔记本的优势。   它最吸引我的升级点是取消了 One Link+ 接口，联想终于在旗下最高端的产品上取消了自有的接口标准，此外它更是提供了两个雷电3接口，两个 USB 3.0 接口。单从接口上它就足以称得上是史上最良心的 X1 Carbon。  ThinkPad X1 Yoga  2016款 ThinkPad X1 Yoga 是 ThinkPad 在高端系列第一次尝试翻转变形产品，2017款 X1 Yoga 整体延续了上一代的设计（没有窄边框），同样引入了银色的外观，接口配置与新款 X1C 基本相同。   ThinkPad X1 Yoga 的亮点依然是那块 OLED 屏幕（好像全线都是 OLED），其具有 100% sRGB 色域，支持触控操作，配件中包含 ThinkPad Pen Pro 触控笔。   坦白说，我个人对于 ThinkPad X1 Yoga 的第一印象并不是很好，看起来第二代产品做了相当多的改进，具体表现不妨多多期待一下，比如说可以标配触控笔。  ThinkPad X1 Tablet   ThinkPad 似乎无意跟进类似 Surface 的可插拔变形形态，新 X1T 的外观和连接方式基本没有变化。配置方面，Intel 替 ThinkPad 把酷睿m升级到了 i7（7代酷睿m改名），无线网卡升级至更强大的 Intel 8265AC，官方宣称可提供5小时续航时间。   其实 ThinkPad X1 Tablet 与上一代相比最大的不同是引入了投影模块，具体效果也不好说。  只看过新闻没拿过产品的同学对它配备小红点键盘一定非常好奇，很负责任地告诉大家，X1T 的小红点键盘与 ThinkPad 标准的小红点键盘在手感上有很大的不同。  从历代 X1 系列的产品来看，ThinkPad 在产品设计上有了越来越多联想的影子，窄边框、可翻转都是现在联想产品上试水才走到 ThinkPad 产品当中，ThinkPad 也确实因为这些元素的加入变的更加多样化。你可以说联想手中的 ThinkPad 变的越来越不像小黑，但联想在 ThinkPad 身上的所有动作让更多的消费者接受了这个商务品牌，银色的小黑、游戏本的小黑、入门产品的小黑，都是 ThinkPad。  联想 Y520/Y720  相对 ThinkPad 一口气发布三款高端新品的高调姿态，母品牌联想显得低调了不少，只发布了两款 Legion 品牌的游戏笔记本。   毫无疑问，Legion 又是联想的一个子品牌，至此，联想已经有了包括 ThinkPad、YOGA、Miix、Flex、拯救者、小新在内的7个 PC 品牌。   如果你对联想游戏本比较熟悉，应该能一眼认出来 Legion 就是此前 Y 系列的设计语言，Y520 和 Y720 外观上的差距不是很大，二者只是细节设计的不同，以及硬件配置的高低。  Y520 搭载15.6英寸 FHD 分辨率 IPS 屏幕，最高可选 i7-7700HQ 处理器，16GB 内存，2TB 硬盘以及 GTX 1050Ti 独显。  Y720 则配备15.6英寸 4K 分辨率屏幕，处理器、内存硬盘的配置与 Y520 相同，显卡方面最高可选 GTX 1060。   推出 Legion 并不是联想成心想推出新的品牌，自2016年底开始，拯救者已经承担了替联想冲击高端游戏本市场的任务，继续用拯救者品牌推出入门产品显然与它的高端布局相悖。  戴尔 XPS 13 翻转本  戴尔在本次 CES 上更新了不少产品，游匣系列、外星人系列全线升级至 Kaby Lake 处理器，游匣的 GPU 也有了 GTX 1050 和 1050Ti 两个新选择。   本次 CES 上戴尔的重点依然是 XPS 系列，戴尔推出了可翻转变形的 XPS 13。可变形的 XPS 13 依然采用了窄边框设计，摄像头从侧边移动到了屏幕正下方（支持 Windows Hello），下沉式转轴换成了360度转轴。   在硬件上，新机搭载了功耗更低的 Y 系列 Kaby Lake 处理器，去掉了风扇，机身变的更加轻薄。屏幕方面有 3K 和 FHD 两种可选，支持 Active Pen（2048级压感）。  三星 Odyssey 游戏本  某种程度上讲，三星在 PC 领域已经是边缘厂商，2014年底，三星宣布退出欧洲市场，此后也有传言表示三星将彻底退出 PC 市场，不过从 CES 来看，至少目前三星还没有这个想法。   CES 上，三星发布了新一代 Nookbook 9，与此前 Nookbook 9 系列相同，新一代依然主打超轻的重量，它号称是最轻的13英寸笔记本，机身重量仅为820克，厚度更是逆天，只比普通的 USB 接口厚了一丢丢，屏幕的厚度也相当可观。   Notebook 9 一直以来就是高端轻薄本的标杆之作，轻薄的机身、还不错的键盘、完备的接口等各种维度都是一流水准。   不过 CES 上最大的惊喜还是三星推出的名为 Odyssey 的游戏本。其实早在2016年10月就了解到三星推出游戏本的打算，并且还看到了一些模糊的设计图，至今看到真机图，内心有很多感慨。   硬件上，Odyssey 有15英寸和17英寸两种尺寸可选，搭载 Intel Kaby Lake 四核 i7 处理器，17.3英寸最高支持 64GB DDR4 内存，512GB PCIe SSD+1TB HDD，显卡暂不确定，只有黑色可选；15.6英寸最高可选 32GB DDR4 内存，256GB PCIe SSD+1TB HDD，显卡为 GTX 1050，有黑白双色可选。   从产品本身来看，三星做游戏本确实参考了许多市场上现有产品的设计语言， RGB 背光灯的键盘，整体的红黑配色设计，触控板、顶盖的发光设计，机身底部的散热区域、音响设计等等都是用了心的，但这款游戏本总是给人一种为了设计而设计的感觉。在其它厂商已经将外观设计化繁为简的今天，Odyssey 就显得很突兀了。  LG Gram 14  LG Gram 去年就在我的 CES 盘点名单当中，今年它同样走入了我的视线。   外观上，Gram 14 依然是那个窄边框轻薄本，全金属的外观、美轮美奂的转轴设计、还算齐全的接口配置等等都没有改变，这张配图简直不能更梦幻。   不过它进入本次盘点的理由并不再是外观和设计，本次 Gram 的另一个名字是 All Day Gram，意思就是可以连续运行一天一夜不用充电，13.3英寸的 Gram 通过了 LG 的24小时续航测试，14英寸的续航时间为23小时，15.6英寸的续航时间为22小时。  官方数据中的续航时间总是会有一些水分，但24小时的续航时间，即便是缩水也应该能达到20小时左右的水平，LG 似乎还没有公布本次 Gram 所搭载的是 Y 系列还是 U 系列 Kaby Lake 处理器，当然无论是哪一种，长达20小时的续航时间都相当惊艳。  华硕 ASUSPRO B9440  CES 从来不是台系品牌的主场，不过华硕还是带来了相当具有看点的 ASUSPRO B9440 14英寸轻薄本。   这是一款14英寸商务本，其采用超窄边框设计，这个窄边框可能比 XPS 13 更加出彩（华硕似乎放弃了前置摄像头），它采用银灰色全金属机身，配有指纹识别模块。华硕说这是世界上最轻的14英寸笔记本（1.04千克），接口方面只有一个3.5毫米音频接口和两个 USB Type-C 接口，两个数据接口位于屏幕部分。   从图片上来看，ASUSPRO 的连接方式更像是二合一笔记本，但它似乎确实是不可拆分的。   硬件上，它搭载第七代 i5/i7 处理器（暂时不确定是 Y 还是 U），最高可选 16GB LPDDR3 内存，512GB M.2 SSD。  ASUSPRO 是一台相当奇怪的笔记本，它的命名方式和外观设计都前所未有，你能够想象 Apple Pro、Lenovo Pro、ThinkPad Pro 是一台笔记本的名字吗？或许是华硕认为 ASUS 的品牌更具有商务气息吧。  华硕 Vivo PC X  mini 主机将会是未来 PC 的重要产品形态之一，不过今年的 CES 上，别说 mini 主机，连台式机都没有几款。华硕 Vivo PC 是我个人比较熟悉的机器，它的第一代和第二代产品我都有亲身体验过。到了第三代产品，华硕干脆把它做成了游戏主机。   Vivo PC X 的机身体积与前作相差不大，华硕将银色金属机身改成了更具游戏氛围的红黑配色，机身也使用了更有时尚感的纹理设计，接口方面，其配有四个 USB 3.0 接口，两个 USB 2.0 接口，一个 RJ45 网络接口，两个 HDMI 接口，一个 DP 接口，三个音频接口。   硬件方面，它搭载最新的七代 i5 处理器（不清楚是桌面版还是移动版），显卡最高可选GTX 1060，8GB 内存、512GB SSD，支持 VR。  稳定发挥，但并不惊艳  首先需要和大家说明，本文中所提到的电脑并不是本次 CES 的全部 PC 产品，CES 还没有结束，理论上展会期间每一天都会有新产品出现，此外我还替你们筛选掉了一些平庸的产品。但是留下的这11款产品中有惊艳到你的吗？   2016年是 PC 发展关键的一年，这一年我们见识了窄边框，见识了表链式转轴，见识了强大的 Pascal 显卡，到现在，PC 产品已经很难找到新的创新点，于是大家不约而同地将目光放到了长久的体验当中。而体验这种东西，通过一个展会是无法被感知到的。  好消息是，2017年的高端产品将继续趋于完美，ThinkPad X1 Carbon、戴尔 XPS 13、三星 Notebook 9 这样的顶级轻薄本将面临更强大的竞争，即便底子足够硬也会迎来诸如 ASUSPRO、LG Gram 这些新机的挑战。  坏消息是，在设计上，PC 已经很难有再有颠覆，接下来的发展路线无非就是更轻薄便携、性能更强大、续航时间增加。同时我们要明白这样一件事儿，PC 只是工具，并不是未来。  不过对你我一样的普通消费者来说，2017年将有更多更好的电脑可供选择，从轻薄本到游戏本，各种类型都一定会有适合你的产品。     